# Water Level Prediction and Flood Alert Based on Historical Data

<p style="text-align: justify;">According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the most common kind of natural disaster is floods, which happen when a water overflow submerges a normally dry area. Heavy 
rains, quick snowmelt, storm surges from tropical cyclones, or tsunamis in coastal locations are frequently the cause of floods. Normally, there are three main categories of floods which are flash floods, river floods and coastal floods. A flash flood is defined as a flood brought on by an abundance of rain or severe precipitation during a brief period of time usually less than six hours (US Department of Commerce, NOAA, National Weather Service, 2019). When a river's capacity is exceeded by persistent rain or snowmelt, river floods result. Coastal flood was created when Storm surges linked to tropical storms and tsunamis. <br>Our country Malaysia will face multiple waves of floods at the end of every year. The floods as a serious threat to the residents, houses and other structures. According to the Star (2023), the report said that flooding is worsening in Kelantan, Terengganu and Pahang with the number of evacuees increasing in all three states. Therefore, our goal is to predict whether a flood is likely to occur, which helps to lessen the potential damage caused by floods. By doing so, this prediction will provide residents and property owners with valuable information to take preventive measures and protect their homes.</p>
